[Doc Improvement] move Teams app + add-in from wiki to Teams docs (#10191)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/m365-apps/combine-office-add-in-and-teams-app.md

---
title: Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app
description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.
ms.date: 01/11/2024
ms.author: mosdevdocs
author: rickki
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.subservice: m365apps
---

# Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

## Introduction

> Office Add-ins are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook. Some of the things that can be done with an Outlook Add-in:

Reviewer: Should this be _Outlook Add-ins are web apps_ rather than "Office Add-ins . . . extend the functionality of Outlook"?

- Read and write the content of email messages and meeting invitations, as well as responses, cancellations, and appointments.
- Read properties of the user's mailbox.
- Respond automatically to events, such as the sending of an email.
- Integrate with external services including CRM and project management.
- Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.

> For more information, start with [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview).

Reviewer: Maybe add a one-liner description of the payload of this article at end of intro section?

## Prerequisites

To configure an Office Add-in as additional capability, you must meet the following conditions:

> - You have a Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams, or separate subscriptions to both Microsoft 365 and Teams, to test the application. For example, an *.onmicrosoft.com account.

Reviewer: How about:

For example, an *onmicrosoft.com test tenant account through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program).

- Your Microsoft 365 account has been added as an account in desktop Outlook. See [Add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726)

> - To deploy the Teams app to Azure as described in the last section of this article, you need an Azure account to an Azure subscription. Create your free Azure account if you don't already have one by using the link [Free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).

Reviewer: How about: an Azure account with an active subscription.

## Overview

The following are the major steps to adding an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.

1. [Prepare the Teams app project](#prepare-the-teams-app-project)
1. [Create an Office Add-in project](#create-an-outlook-add-in-project) that is initially separate from your Teams app project.

> 1. [Merge the manifest](#merge-the-manifest) from the Outlook Add-in project into the unified Microsoft 365 manifest.

Reviewer: unified app manifest for Microsoft 365 (per latest terminology convention)

1. Copy the production URL from the ADDIN_ENDPOINT in env/.env.dev file.
1. Edit \add-in\webpack.config.js file and change `urlProd` constant value to the value you just copied. Be sure to add a '/' at the end of the URL.
1. In the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL**, navigate to the root of the project, and then run `npm run build:add-in`.
1. Copy the file \add-in\dist\manifest.dev.json to the \appPackage folder.
1. Rename the copy in the \appPackage folder to "manifest.addinPreview.json".
1. In the **TERMINAL**, run `npx office-addin-dev-settings sideload .\appPackage\manifest.addinPreview.json`. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens. (If you're prompted to install `office-addin-dev-settings`, respond "yes".)
1. Open the **Inbox** of *your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action button** and a small notification appears near the top of the message.

> ## What’s next

Reviewer: Could we also add a "See also" section with links to related unified manifest articles in Office Add-ins docs? This would be a great way to promote them (and paint a more holistic picture) from the Teams docs.

Author: I'll do what I can, but for the most part we did not segregate unified manifest content into separate articles. Instead, we divided the manifest configuration sections into two tabs, one each for XML manifest and unified manifest. An example is at [Enable shared folders](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/delegate-access.) Scroll down to the "Configure the manifest" section to see what I mean.

Reviewer: Looks good! Could we move "See also" to be last section (below "Next steps"), per convention?

Also, the See also links are bunching together inline--I think they either need bullets or additional line breaks.

---
title: Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app
description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.
ms.date: 01/11/2024
ms.author: mosdevdocs
author: rickki
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.subservice: m365apps
---

# Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

## Introduction

Outlook Add-ins are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook. Some of the things that can be done with an Outlook Add-in:

- Read and write the content of email messages and meeting invitations, as well as responses, cancellations, and appointments.
- Read properties of the user's mailbox.
- Respond automatically to events, such as the sending of an email.
- Integrate with external services including CRM and project management.
- Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.

> [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) which will give you information about what you can do with Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they differ from older ways of extending Outlook, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

Reviewer: Is this sentence needed? The link is covered in "See also" section, and you could also just inline it in the first instance of "Outlook Add-ins"in the article

Reviewer: Looking again, I think this text works fine--it just needs a minor tweak so it reads as a proper sentence. How about:

**For more info,** [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) **provides** information about what you can do with Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they differ from older ways of extending Outlook, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

Author: > Looking again, I think this text works fine--it just needs a minor tweak so it reads as a proper sentence. How about:
> 
> **For more info,** [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) **provides** information about what you can do with Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they differ from older ways of extending Outlook, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

I added your version back in.

## Prerequisites

To configure an Office Add-in as additional capability, you must meet the following conditions:

- You have a Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams, or separate subscriptions to both Microsoft 365 and Teams, to test the application. For example, an *.onmicrosoft.com test account through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program).
- Your Microsoft 365 account has been added as an account in desktop Outlook. See [Add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726)
- To deploy the Teams app to Azure as described in the last section of this article, you need an Azure account with an active subscription. Create your free Azure account if you don't already have one by using the link [Free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a prereq that you need an existing Teams app and Add-in that you want to package together? And then note that alternately, there's a completed sample available if you'd like to walk through the steps with that. Maybe even note that the following steps use the Contoso Add-in sample as an example.

Author: I'll add that you need an existing Teams app. But the tutorial has the reader create an Outlook add-in, so we can't really say they need to have one already. 

There is danger here. The process described in this tutorial has always been fragile. It has to assume that both the Teams app and the add-in have a certain folder structure and have certain configuration files with specific content. The Teams app must be one that was created with the latest version of Teams Toolkit. The add-in also must be created with the latest version of Teams Toolkit (or with a tool called Yo Office, provided that they make the "right" choices in that tool). 

In other words, this article doesn't give generic guidance for how to combine any old Teams app with any old Outlook add-in. We could have an article like that someday, but it would be exceedingly vague. There is an infinite number of ways that developers can structure the folders and source files for both a Teams app and an Office add-in. They don't all even use the same language. Some add-ins use TypeScript, others JavaScript, with concomitant changes in various config files. 

The hope is that developers will go through this tutorial and then be able to infer general principles about how to combine add-ins with Teams apps, and then apply those principles to their own Teams app and add-in. Preethika Kiruveedula was the DevX PM for Office at the time and can tell you more about the reasoning and history of this article.

Reviewer: Gotcha, makes sense.

---

> title: Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Add Outlook add-in to Teams
```

Author: > 

This is not accurate. They are adding an addin to a Teams app, not to Teams. Also, the "a" and "an" are needed to make this idiomatic English.

description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.
ms.date: 01/11/2024
ms.author: mosdevdocs
author: rickki
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.subservice: m365apps
---

> # Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Add Outlook add-in to Teams
```

Author: Same comment as above.

## Introduction

> [Outlook Add-ins](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook. Some of the things that can be done with an Outlook Add-in:
> 
> - Read and write the content of email messages and meeting invitations, as well as responses, cancellations, and appointments.
> - Read properties of the user's mailbox.
> - Respond automatically to events, such as the sending of an email.
> - Integrate with external services including CRM and project management.
> - Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Outlook Add-ins](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook. With an Outlook Add-in, you can:

- Read and write email messages and engage in meeting invitations, responses, cancellations, and appointments.
- Read properties of the user's mailbox.
- Respond to events automatically, such as the sending an email.
- Integrate with external services including CRM and project management tools.
- Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.
```

> Combining an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app enables scenarios that can't be satisfied with either of them separately. For example, consider an app that enables sales persons to insert a customized discount into an email for a customer, and then records the offer in a backend database. The app also enables the sales manager to view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. There is a sample of this app with animated screen shots at [Discount Offers](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you add an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app, it enables scenarios that can't be satisfied with either of them separately. For example, consider an app that enables a salesperson to insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and record the offer in a backend database. The sales manager can also view data about all the discounts offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).
```

Author: I'm leaving the first sentence "as is". I think your version makes the reference of "it" unclear.

```suggestion
Combining an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app enables scenarios that can't be satisfied with either of them separately. For example, consider an app that enables a salesperson to insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and records the offer in a backend database. The sales manager can also view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).
```

> This article will walk you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.

Reviewer 2: Can we remove the sentence here and add it to the description metadata. It will help is the discoverability.

Author: I will add it to the metadata, but readers don't see that, so I think we should keep it here too.

> ## Prerequisites
> 
> To configure an Office Add-in as additional capability, you must meet the following conditions:
> 
> - You have a Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams, or separate subscriptions to both Microsoft 365 and Teams, to test the application. For example, an *.onmicrosoft.com test account through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program).
> - Your Microsoft 365 account has been added as an account in desktop Outlook. See [Add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726)
> - To deploy the Teams app to Azure as described in the last section of this article, you need an Azure account with an active subscription. Create your free Azure account if you don't already have one by using the link [Free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
> - A Teams app that was created with the latest version of Teams Toolkit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites 

To configure an Office Add-in, ensure that you meet the following requirements: 

- A Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams to test the appl. Alternatively, you can have separate subscriptions to both Microsoft 365 and Teams. For example, a test account with *.onmicrosoft.com through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program). 
- Your Microsoft 365 account is added as an account in desktop Outlook. For more information, see [add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726).
 - An Azure account with active subscription to deploy the Teams app to Azure. If you don't already have one, you can create your [free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
 - A Teams app that was created with the latest version of Teams Toolkit.
```

## Overview

The following are the major steps to adding an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.

1. [Prepare the Teams app project](#prepare-the-teams-app-project)
1. [Create an Office Add-in project](#create-an-outlook-add-in-project) that is initially separate from your Teams app project.
1. [Merge the manifest](#merge-the-manifest) from the Outlook Add-in project into the unified manifest for Microsoft 365.
1. [Copy the Outlook Add-in files to the Teams app project](#copy-the-outlook-add-in-files-to-the-teams-app-project).
1. [Edit the tooling configuration files](#edit-the-tooling-configuration-files).
1. [Run the app and add-in locally at the same time](#run-the-app-and-add-in-locally-at-the-same-time)
1. [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure).

## Prepare the Teams app project

> Begin by separating the source code for the tab (or bot) into its own subfolder. These instructions assume that the project initially has the following structure. To create a Teams app project with this structure, be sure you're using the latest released version of Teams Toolkit. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Teams tab or bot using the latest version on Teams Toolkit.  After the project is created, you'll see the following  project directories and files under **EXPLORER** in Visual Studio Code.
```

Author: This changes the meaning of the paragraph. They do NOT have to create a Teams app. They just have to have one that matches the structure that is displayed below this paragraph. One way, but not the only way, to get one is to create it with the latest version of TTK. Also, the audience of this article does not need to be told how to view a folder structure.

---
title: Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app
description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app. This article will walk you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.
ms.date: 02/15/2024
ms.author: mosdevdocs
author: rickki
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.subservice: m365apps
---

# Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

## Introduction

> [Outlook Add-ins](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook. With an Outlook Add-in, you can:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Outlook Add-ins](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) are web apps that extend the functionality of Outlook into a Microsoft Teams app. With an Outlook Add-in, you can:
```

Author: > 

This change would not be accurate. An add-in doesn't move Outlook functionality into a Teams app.

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

- Read properties of the user's mailbox.
- Respond to events automatically, such as sending an email.
- Integrate with external services including CRM and project management tools.
- Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.

For more info, [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) provides information about what you can do with Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they differ from older ways of extending Outlook, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

Combining an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app enables scenarios that can't be satisfied with either of them separately. For example, consider an app that enables a salesperson to insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and records the offer in a backend database. The sales manager can also view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).

> 

Reviewer 3: Integrating an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app provides unique functionalities that can't be fulfilled individually. Consider a scenario where a salesperson can insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and record the offer in a backend database, all within Teams. The sales manager can then view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).

[Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) provides insights on the capabilities of Outlook Add-ins, their architecture, improvements over previous extension methods, the platforms they support (Windows, Mac, mobile, and web), and steps to begin developing your own.

Author: > Consider a scenario where a salesperson can insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and record the offer in a backend database, all within Teams. The sales manager can then view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).
> 
> [Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) provides insights on the capabilities of Outlook Add-ins, their architecture, improvements over previous extension methods, the platforms they support (Windows, Mac, mobile, and web), and steps to begin developing your own.

These changes are not accurate. This would NOT be "all within Teams".

Reviewer 3: Can we consider moving Line 26 to Line 24 and bring Line 24 below?

I have also rephrased without much change in meaning:

Integrating an Outlook Add-in with a Teams application creates unique scenarios that neither of them could achieve independently. Consider a scenario where a salesperson can insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and record the offer in a backend database. The sales manager can also view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).

[Outlook Add-ins Overview](https://github.com/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) provides insights on the capabilities of Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they are improved over previous extension methods, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

Author: OK. I've made this change, with slight variations in wording.

This article will walk you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.

## Prerequisites 

> To configure an Office Add-in, ensure that you meet the following requirements: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements: 
```

> - A Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams to test the appl. Alternatively, you can have separate subscriptions to both Microsoft 365 and Teams. For example, a test account with *.onmicrosoft.com through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program). 

Reviewer: Oops, was just about to approve--spotted this typo:

A Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams to test the **appl**.

Author: > Oops, was just about to approve--spotted this typo:
> 
> A Microsoft 365 account that includes Teams to test the **appl**.

Fixed

- Your Microsoft 365 account is added as an account in desktop Outlook. For more information, see [add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/office/add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726).

>  - An Azure account with active subscription to deploy the Teams app to Azure. If you don't already have one, you can create your [free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - An Azure account with active subscription to deploy the Teams app to Azure. If you don't have one, you can create your [free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
```

 - A Teams app created using the latest version of Teams Toolkit.

> ## Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app
```

> The following are the major steps to adding an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Integrating an Outlook Add-in with a Teams app provides unique functionalities that can't be fulfilled individually. To add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app:
```

Author: > 

This value proposition was already stated earlier. It doesn't belong here in the practical implementation section.

1. [Prepare the Teams app project](#prepare-the-teams-app-project)
1. [Create an Office Add-in project](#create-an-outlook-add-in-project) that is initially separate from your Teams app project.
1. [Merge the manifest](#merge-the-manifest) from the Outlook Add-in project into the unified manifest for Microsoft 365.
1. [Copy the Outlook Add-in files to the Teams app project](#copy-the-outlook-add-in-files-to-the-teams-app-project).
1. [Edit the tooling configuration files](#edit-the-tooling-configuration-files).
1. [Run the app and add-in locally at the same time](#run-the-app-and-add-in-locally-at-the-same-time)
1. [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure).

> ## Prepare the Teams app project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Prepare the Teams app project
```

> Begin by separating the source code for the tab (or bot) into its own subfolder. These instructions assume that the project initially has the following structure. To create a Teams app project with this structure, be sure you're using the latest released version of Teams Toolkit. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Begin by separating the source code for the tab (or bot) into its own subfolder. These instructions assume that the project initially has the following structure. To create a Teams app project with this structure, use the latest Teams Toolkit version. 
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: We add the structure as image and not as code snippet. Please check if it can be added as image.

Author: > We add the structure as image and not as code snippet. Please check if it can be added as image.

I understand, but this structure is likely to change frequently when there are new versions of Teams Toolkit. So, to make it easy to update, it should be an editable snippet.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Thanks.

|-- .vscode/
|-- appPackage/
|-- build
|-- env/
|-- infra/
|-- node_modules/
|-- src/
|-- .gitignore
|-- .localConfigs
|-- .webappignore
|-- package-lock.json
|-- package.json
|-- teamsapp.local.yml
|-- teamsapp.yml
|-- tsconfig.json
|-- web.config
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you're working with a new Teams tab project, the node_modules folder and the package-lock.json file isn't present. The node_modules is created in a later step when you run `npm install` in the root of the project. The build folder isn't present unless and until you run a build script on the project. 

> 

Reviewer 3: Please add a stem sentence to start the steps.

Suggestion:
To separate the source code for the tab or bot, perform the following steps:

Author: done

> 1. Create a folder under the root named "tab" (or "bot").

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a folder under the root named tab (or bot).
```

Author: > 

This change wouldn't be correct English. We're talking about the **words** "tab" and "bot" not about tabs and bots.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a folder under the root named **tab** (or **bot**).
```

Please add bold, as we are referring to folder names.

    > [!NOTE]

>     > For simplicity, the remainder of this article assumes that the existing Teams app is a tab. If you started with a bot instead, replace "tab" with "bot" in all of these instructions, including the content you add or edit in various files. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    > For simplicity, the remainder of this article assumes that the existing Teams app is a tab. If you started with a bot, replace tab with bot in all of these instructions, including the content you add or edit in various files. 
```

Author: > 

Same problem. We're talking about the _words_, so the quotation marks are needed.

1. *Copy* the infra folder into the new subfolder, and then delete the azure.parameters.json file from the new tab/infra folder.

> 1. *Move* the node_modules and src folders into the new subfolder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Move the **node_modules** and **src** folders into the new subfolder.
```

> 1. *Move* the .webappignore, package-lock.json, package.json, tsconfig.json, and web.config files into the new subfolder. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Move the `.webappignore`, `package-lock.json`, `package.json`, `tsconfig.json`, and `web.config` files into the new subfolder. 
```

    ```
    |-- .vscode/
    |-- appPackage/
    |-- build
    |-- env/
    |-- infra/
    |-- tab/
    |-- |-- infra/
    |-- |-- node_modules/
    |-- |-- src/
    |-- |-- .webappignore
    |-- |-- package-lock.json
    |-- |-- package.json
    |-- |-- tsconfig.json
    |-- |-- web.config
    |-- .gitignore
    |-- .localConfigs
    |-- teamsapp.local.yml
    |-- teamsapp.yml
    ```

1. In the package.json that you just moved to the tab folder, delete the script named "dev:teamsfx" from the "scripts" object. This script is added to a new package.json in the next step.

> 1. Create a new file named package.json *in the root of the project* and give it the following content:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a new file named `package.json` in the root of the project and add the following content:
```

    ```
    {
        "name": "CombinedTabAndAddin",
        "version": "0.0.1",
        "author": "Contoso",
        "scripts": {
            "dev:teamsfx": "env-cmd --silent -f .localConfigs npm run start:tab",
            "build:tab": "cd tab && npm run build",
            "install:tab": "cd tab && npm install",
            "start:tab": "cd tab && npm run start",
            "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
        },
        "devDependencies": {
            "@microsoft/teamsfx-cli": "2.0.2-alpha.4f379e6ab.0",
            "@microsoft/teamsfx-run-utils": "alpha",
            "env-cmd": "^10.1.0",
            "office-addin-dev-settings": "^2.0.3",
            "ncp": "^2.0.0"
        }
    }
    ```

1. Change the "name", "version", and "author" properties, as needed.

> 1. Open the teamsapp.yml file in the root of the project and find the line `ignoreFile: .webappignore`. Change this to `ignoreFile: ./tab/.webappignore`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `teamsapp.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `ignoreFile: .webappignore`, and change it to `ignoreFile: ./tab/.webappignore`.
```

> 1. Open the teamsapp.local.yml file in the root of the project and find the line `args: install --no-audit`. Change this to `args: run install:tab --no-audit`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `args: install --no-audit`., and change this to `args: run install:tab --no-audit`.
```

> 1. Open **TERMINAL** in Visual Studio Code. Navigate to the root of the project and run `npm install`. Among other things, a new node_modules folder and a new package.lock.json file are created in the project root. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open **TERMINAL** in Visual Studio Code. Navigate to the root of the project and run `npm install`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the project root. 
```

> 1. Next run `npm run install:tab`. Among other things, a new node_modules folder and a new package.lock.json file are created are created in the tab folder, if they aren't there already. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Next run `npm run install:tab`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the tab folder, if they aren't there already. 
```

> 1. Verify that you can sideload the tab with the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify if you can sideload the tab with the following steps:
```

Author: > 

This would change the meaning. That's not what "if" means.

>     1. Open Teams Toolkit, and in the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Open Teams Toolkit. 
    1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed in to Microsoft 365 account.
```

>     1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code.
```

>     1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Debug in Teams (Edge)**, and then press F5. The project builds and runs. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Debug in Teams (Edge)** and press F5. 
        The project builds and runs. This process can take a couple of minutes. After successful debugging, Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app.
```

Author: > 

I'll make a modified version of this change. The "After successful debugging" is not correct. The debugging only begins after the Teams has opened and the app is added.

>       > [!Note]

Reviewer 3: Increase the indentation for the last two steps to have the correct numbering.

>       > If this is the first time you've debugged a Teams app on this computer, you're prompted to install an SSL certificate. Select **Install** and then **Yes** to the second prompt. Login to your Microsoft 365 account if you're prompted to do so.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      > If this is the first time you've debugged a Teams app on this computer, you're prompted to install an SSL certificate. Select **Install** > **Yes**. Login to your Microsoft 365 account if you're prompted to do so.
```

Author: > 

The proposed version will not be as easy for the user. They need to know that a second prompt is expected.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Thanks.

    1. Select **Add**.

>     1. To stop debugging and uninstall the app, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. To stop debugging and uninstall the app, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code.
```

> ## Create an Outlook Add-in project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Create an Outlook Add-in project
```

    1. *First, make sure Outlook desktop is closed.*
    1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.
    1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.
    1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)**, and then press F5. The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens.
    1. Open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
    1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.
    1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

> ## Merge the manifest

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Merge the manifest
```

                }
            ]
        }
    },
    ```

1. In the env/.env.local file, find the lines that assign values to the `TAB_DOMAIN` and `TAB_ENDPOINT` variables. Add the following lines immediately below them:

    ```
    ADDIN_DOMAIN=localhost:3000
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=https://localhost:3000
    ```

1. In the env/.env.dev file, add the following line just below the `TAB_ENDPOINT=` ... line:

    ```
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=
    ```

1. In the Teams manifest template, add the placeholder `"${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",` to the top of the "validDomains" array. The Teams Toolkit replaces this with a localhost domain when you're developing locally. When you deploy the finished combined app to staging or production as described in [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure), Teams Toolkit replaces the placeholder with the staging/production URI. The following JSON is an example:

    ```json
    "validDomains": [
        "${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",
        
        // other domains or placeholders
    ],
    ```

1. Copy the entire "extensions" property from the add-in's manifest into the Teams app manifest template as a top-level property.

> ## Copy the Outlook Add-in files to the Teams app project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Copy the Outlook Add-in files to the Teams app project
```

      1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.
      1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.
      1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** (*not* any of the "Launch *App* ..." options), and then press F5. The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens.
      1. Open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
      1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.
      1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

> ## Run the app and add-in locally at the same time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Run the app and add-in locally at the same time
```

    - Outlook desktop opens.

1. In the Teams prompt, select **Add** and the tab opens.
1. In Outlook, open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.
1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.
1. If you had to manually sideload the Teams Tab app, remove it from Teams as instructed in [Remove your app](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-upload#remove-your-app). 

> ## Move the application to Azure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Move the application to Azure
```

            "@microsoft/teamsfx-run-utils": "alpha",
            "env-cmd": "^10.1.0",
            "office-addin-dev-settings": "^2.0.3",
            "ncp": "^2.0.0"
        }
    }
    ```

1. Change the `name`, `version`, and `author` properties, as needed.
1. Open the `teamsapp.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `ignoreFile: .webappignore`, and change it to `ignoreFile: ./tab/.webappignore`.
1. Open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `args: install --no-audit`, and change this to `args: run install:tab --no-audit`.
1. Open **TERMINAL** in Visual Studio Code. Navigate to the root of the project and run `npm install`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the project root. 
1. Next run `npm run install:tab`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the tab folder, if they aren't there already. 
1. Verify that you can sideload the tab with the following steps:

    1. Open Teams Toolkit. 
    1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed in to Microsoft 365 account.
    1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code.

>     1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Debug in Teams (Edge)**, and press F5. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Debug in Teams (Edge)** and press F5. 
```

Author: This change would violate the guidance in the style guide: https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2700

Author: You're correct. I'll accept the change.

	
	    The project builds and runs. This process can take a couple of minutes. When it completes, Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app.

      > [!NOTE]
      > If this is the first time you've debugged a Teams app on this computer, you're prompted to install an SSL certificate. Select **Install** and then **Yes** to the second prompt. Login to your Microsoft 365 account if you're prompted to do so.

    1. Select **Add**.
    1. To stop debugging and uninstall the app, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code.

### Create an Outlook Add-in project

1. Open a second instance of Visual Studio Code.

> 1. With Teams Toolkit open in Visual Studio Code, select **Create a new app**.

Reviewer 3: 1. Open Visual Studio Code.
1. Select Teams Toolkit in the Visual Studio Code **Activity Bar**.
1.  Select **Create a New App**.

Author: Done, with a slight variation.

> 1. In the **Select an option** drop down menu, select **Outlook add-in**, and then select **Taskpane**.

Author: This change would leave out a step: they have to open the dropdown before they can even see **Outlook Add-in**.

1. Select the folder where you want to create the add-in.

> 1. Give a name (with no spaces) to the project when prompted and Teams Toolkit creates the project with basic files and scaffolding *and open it in a separate Visual Studio Code window*. You will use this project as a source for files and markup that you add to the Teams project.

Reviewer 3: 1. Enter a suitable name (with no spaces) for your app and select **Enter**.
   Teams Toolkit creates the project, completes with basic files and scaffolding, and opens it in a new Visual Studio Code window. Use this project as the source for files and markup additions to your Teams project.

Author: made a variation of this change

> 1. Although you won't be developing this project, verify that it can be sideloaded from Visual Studio Code before you continue. Use the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Perform the following steps to ensure that your project is ready for sideloading from Visual Studio Code before proceeding:
```

Author: This change would be misleading. The project that is being referred to is not "your project". It is a project that the reader will not be developing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Although you won't be developing this project, perform the following steps to verify that it can be sideloaded from Visual Studio Code before you continue:
```

>     1. *First, make sure Outlook desktop is closed.*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Make sure Outlook desktop is closed.
```

    1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.
    1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.

>     1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)**, and then press F5. The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code. 
    1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select **Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** and press F5. 
       The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes and opens an Outlook desktop window.
```

>     1. Open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

Author: It is important to leave in the italicized expression because add-in developers typically have more than one account in Outlook.

>     1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
    1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.
```

>     1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. To stop debugging and to uninstall the add-in, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.
```

### Merge the manifest

> The Teams app's manifest is generated at debug-and-sideload time (or build time) from the file manifest.json in the \appPackage folder of the Teams project. *This file is actually a kind of **template** for a manifest. In this article it is referred to as the "template" or "manifest template".* Most of the markup is hardcoded into the template, but there are also some configuration files that contain data that gets injected into the final generated manifest. In this procedure, you do the following tasks:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Teams app's manifest is generated at debug-and-sideload time (or build time) from the `manifest.json` file in the **\appPackage** folder of the Teams project. This file is a **template** for a manifest. In this article, it's referred to as the *template* or *manifest template*. Most of the markup is hardcoded into the template, but there are also some configuration files that contain data that gets added to the final generated manifest. In this procedure, perform the following tasks:
```

- Copy markup from the add-in's manifest to the Teams app's manifest template.

> - Edit the configuration files. 

Reviewer 3: Should the Line 175 and 176 part of the steps given below? Also, please check if Line 178 needs to be added as Note.

Author: I don't think so.

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

> Unless specified otherwise, the file you change is \appPackage\manifest.json.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unless specified otherwise, the file you change is `\appPackage\manifest.json`.
```

> 1. Copy the "$schema" and "manifestVersion" property values from the add-in's manifest to the corresponding properties of the Teams app's manifest template file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the `$schema` and `manifestVersion` property values from the add-in's manifest to the corresponding properties of the Teams app's manifest template file.
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Incorrect comment, please ignore.

> 1. Adjust the "name.full", "description.short", and "description.full" property values as needed to take account of the fact that an Outlook add-in is part of the app. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Modify the `name.full`, `description.short`, and `description.full` property values as required to reflect that an Outlook add-in is part of the app. 
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

> 1. Do the same for the "name.short" value. We recommend that you keep the `${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}` on the end of the name. This variable is replaced with "local" when you're debugging on localhost and with "dev" when you're either debugging from a remote domain or in production mode. (Historically, Office Add-in developer documentation uses the term "dev" or "dev mode" to refer to running the add-in on a localhost. It uses the term "prod" or "production mode" to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for staging or production. Teams developer documentation uses the term "local" to refer to running the add-in on a localhost, and the term "dev" to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for remote debugging, which is usually called "staging." We're working on getting the terminology consistent.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Do the same for the `name.short` value. 
    We recommend that you keep the `${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}` on the end of the name. This variable is replaced with `local` when you're debugging on localhost and with `dev` when you're either debugging from a remote domain or in production mode. 
    > [!NOTE]
    > Historically, Office Add-in developer documentation uses the term `dev` or `dev mode` to refer to running the add-in on a localhost. It uses the term `prod` or `production mode` to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for staging or production. Teams developer documentation uses the term `local` to refer to running the add-in on a localhost, and the term `dev` to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for remote debugging, which is usually called `staging`. We're working on getting the terminology consistent.
```

Author: made slightly modified version of this change

    The following JSON is an example:

    ```
    "short": "Contoso Tab and Add-in-${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}",
    ```

    > [!NOTE]

>     > The "name.short" value appears in both the Teams tab capability and the Outlook add-in. Examples: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    > The `name.short` value appears in both the Teams tab capability and the Outlook add-in. Here are few examples: 
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

    >
    > - It is the label under the launch button of the Teams tab.
    > - It is content of the title bar of the add-in's task pane.

> 1. If you changed the "name.short" value from its default (which is the name of the project followed by the `${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}` variable), make exactly the same change in all places where the project name appears in the following two files in the root of the project: teamsapp.yml and teamsapp.local.yml.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If you changed the `name.short` value from its default (which is the name of the project followed by the `${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}` variable), make exactly the same change in all places where the project name appears in the following two files `teamsapp.yml` and `teamsapp.local.yml` in the root of the project.
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks. And I think my way of ending the paragraph is clearer.

> 1. If there is no "authorization.permissions.resourceSpecific" array in the Teams manifest template, copy it from the add-in manifest as a top-level property. If there already is one in the Teams template, copy any objects from the array in the add-in manifest to the array in the Teams template. The following JSON is an example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If there's no `authorization.permissions.resourceSpecific` array in the Teams manifest template, copy it from the add-in manifest as a top-level property. If there's already one in the Teams template, copy any objects from the array in the add-in manifest to the array in the Teams template. The following JSON is an example:
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

    ```json
    "authorization": {
        "permissions": {
            "resourceSpecific": [
                {
                    "name": "MailboxItem.Read.User",
                    "type": "Delegated"
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    ```

> 1. In the env/.env.local file, find the lines that assign values to the `TAB_DOMAIN` and `TAB_ENDPOINT` variables. Add the following lines immediately below them:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the `env/.env.local` file, find the lines that assign values to the `TAB_DOMAIN` and `TAB_ENDPOINT` variables. Add the following lines immediately below them:
```

    ```
    ADDIN_DOMAIN=localhost:3000
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=https://localhost:3000
    ```

> 1. In the env/.env.dev file, add the following line just below the `TAB_ENDPOINT=` ... line:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the `env/.env.dev` file, add the following line just below the `TAB_ENDPOINT=` ... line:
```

    ```
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=
    ```

> 1. In the Teams manifest template, add the placeholder `"${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",` to the top of the "validDomains" array. The Teams Toolkit replaces this with a localhost domain when you're developing locally. When you deploy the finished combined app to staging or production as described in [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure), Teams Toolkit replaces the placeholder with the staging/production URI. The following JSON is an example:

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

> 1. In the Teams manifest template, add the placeholder `"${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",` to the top of the "validDomains" array. The Teams Toolkit replaces this with a localhost domain when you're developing locally. When you deploy the finished combined app to staging or production as described in [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure), Teams Toolkit replaces the placeholder with the staging/production URI. The following JSON is an example:

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Thanks.

    ```json
    "validDomains": [
        "${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",
        
        // other domains or placeholders
    ],
    ```

> 1. Copy the entire "extensions" property from the add-in's manifest into the Teams app manifest template as a top-level property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the entire `extensions` property from the add-in's manifest into the Teams app manifest template as a top-level property.
```

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Incorrect comment, please ignore.

### Copy the Outlook Add-in files to the Teams app project

> 1. Create a top-level folder called "add-in" in the Teams app project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a top-level folder called **add-in** in the Teams app project.
```

> 1. Copy the following files and folders from the add-in project to the "add-in" folder of the Teams app project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the following files and folders from the add-in project to the **add-in** folder of the Teams app project.
```

    - /appPackage
    - /infra
    - /src
    - .eslintrc.json
    - babel.config.json
    - package-lock.json
    - package.json
    - tsconfig.json
    - webpack.config.js

1. When you have finished the copy, *delete the manifest.json file in the /add-in/appPackage folder*.

>     Your folder structure should now look like the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Your folder structure must now look like the following example:
```

    ```
    |-- .vscode/
    |-- add-in/
    |-- |-- appPackage/assets/
    |-- |-- infra/
    |-- |-- src/
    |-- |-- .eslintrc.json
    |-- |-- babel.config.json
    |-- |-- package-lock.json
    |-- |-- package.json
    |-- |-- tsconfig.json
    |-- |-- webpack.config.js
    |-- appPackage/
    |-- build\appPackage/
    |-- env/
    |-- infra/
    |-- node_modules/
    |-- tab/
    |-- |-- infra/
    |-- |-- node_modules/
    |-- |-- src/
    |-- |-- .webappignore
    |-- |-- package-lock.json
    |-- |-- package.json
    |-- |-- tsconfig.json
    |-- |-- web.config
    |-- .gitignore
    |-- .localConfigs
    |-- package.json
    |-- teamsapp.local.yml
    |-- teamsapp.yml
    ```

### Edit the tooling configuration files

> 1. Open the package.json file *in the root of the project*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `package.json` file in the root of the project.
```

> 1. Add the following scripts to the "scripts" object:

Author: This change is not consistent with the standard practice in Teams docs, which is to put manifest property names in quotation marks.

> 1. Add the following scripts to the "scripts" object:

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

    ```
    "install:add-in": "cd add-in && npm install",
    "postinstall": "npm run install:add-in && npm run install:tab",
    "build:add-in": "cd add-in && npm run build",
    "build:add-in:dev": "cd add-in && npm run build:dev",
    "build": "npm run build:tab && npm run build:add-in",
    ```

1. Open the package.json file *in the add-in folder* (not the tab folder, and not the root of the project). 

> 1. Three of the scripts in the "scripts" object have a `manifest.json` parameter like the following examples. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Three of the scripts in the `scripts` object have a `manifest.json` parameter as in the following examples: 
```

    ```
    "start": "office-addin-debugging start appPackage/manifest.json",
    "stop": "office-addin-debugging stop appPackage/manifest.json",
    "validate": "office-addin-manifest validate appPackage/manifest.json",
    ```

>     In the "start" script, change `appPackage/manifest.json` to `../appPackage/build/appPackage.local.zip`. When you're done, the line should look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the `start` script, change `appPackage/manifest.json` to `../appPackage/build/appPackage.local.zip`. When you're done, the line must look like this:
```

    ```
    "start": "office-addin-debugging start ../appPackage/build/appPackage.local.zip",
    ```

>     In the "validate" and "stop" scripts, change the parameter to `../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json`. When you're done, they should look like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the `validate` and `stop` scripts, change the parameter to `../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json`. When you're done, the updates must look like this:
```

    ```
    "stop": "office-addin-debugging stop ../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json",
    "validate": "office-addin-manifest validate ../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json",
    ```

1. In Visual Studio Code, open the **TERMINAL**. *Navigate to the add-in folder*, and then run the command `npm install`. 
1. In the add-in folder, open the webpack.config.js file. 
1. Change the line `from: "appPackage/manifest*.json",` to `from: "../appPackage/build/manifest*.json",`.

> 1. In the root of project, open the teamsapp.local.yml file and find the `provision` section. Use the `#` character to comment out the lines that validate the manifest template. This is necessary because the Teams manifest validation system is not yet compatible with the changes you made to the manifest template. When you're done, the lines should look like the following code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the root of the project, open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file and find the `provision` section. Use the `#` character to comment out the lines that validate the manifest template. This is necessary because the Teams manifest validation system is not yet compatible with the changes you made to the manifest template. When you're done, the lines should look like the following code:
```

    ```
    # - uses: teamsApp/validateManifest
    #   with:
    #     # Path to manifest template
    #     manifestPath: ./appPackage/manifest.json 
    ```

>     Be careful to comment out only the teamsApp/validateManifest section. Don't comment out the teamsManifest/validateAppPackage section!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Be careful to comment out only the `teamsApp/validateManifest` section. Don't comment out the `teamsManifest/validateAppPackage` section.
```

> 1. Repeat the preceding step for the teamsapp.yml file. The three lines are found in both the `provision` and the `publish` sections. Comment them out in both places.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Repeat the preceding step for the `teamsapp.yml` file. The three lines are found in both the `provision` and the `publish` sections. Comment them out in both places.
```

> 1. Open the .vscode\tasks.json file *in the add-in project* and copy all of the tasks in the "tasks" array. *Add* them to "tasks" array of the same file in the *Teams* project. *Don't remove any of the tasks that are already there.* Be sure all tasks are separated by commas. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `.vscode\tasks.json` file in the **add-in** project and copy all of the tasks in the `tasks` array. Add them to `tasks` array of the same file in the Teams project. Don't remove any of the tasks that are already there. Be sure all tasks are separated by commas. 
```

> 1. In *each* of the task objects that you just copied, add the following "options" property to ensure that these tasks run in the add-in folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In each of the task objects that you just copied, add the following `options` property to ensure that these tasks run in the **add-in** folder.
```

    ```
    "options": {
        "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}/add-in/"
    }
    ```

>     For example, the "Debug: Outlook Desktop" task should like the following JSON when you're done. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For example, the `Debug: Outlook Desktop` task must appear like the following JSON when you're done. 
```

    ```
    {
        "label": "Debug: Outlook Desktop",
        "type": "npm",
        "script": "start",
        "dependsOn": [
          "Check OS",
          "Install"
        ],
        "presentation": {
          "clear": true,
          "panel": "dedicated",
        },
        problemMatcher": [],
        "options": {
            "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}/add-in/"
        }
    }
    ```

> 1. Add the following task to the tasks array in the .vscode\tasks.json file of the project. Among other things, this task creates the final manifest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add the following task to the tasks array in the `.vscode\tasks.json` file of the project. Among the other things, this task creates the final manifest.
```

    ```
    {
        // Create the debug resources.
        // See https://aka.ms/teamsfx-tasks/provision to know the details and how to customize the args.
        "label": "Create resources",
        "type": "teamsfx",
        "command": "provision",
        "args": {
            "template": "${workspaceFolder}/teamsapp.local.yml",
            "env": "local"
        }
    },
    ```

1. Add the following task to the tasks array. Note that it adds a "Start Add-in Locally" task that combines the tab app's "Create resources" task with the add-in's debugging task and specifies that they must run in that order.

    ```
    {
        "label": "Start Add-in Locally",
        "dependsOn": [
            "Create resources",
            "Debug: Outlook Desktop"
        ],
        "dependsOrder": "sequence"
    },
    ```

> 1. Add the following task to the tasks array. It combines the "Start Teams App Locally" task with the "Start Add-in Locally" and specifies that they must run in that order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add the following task to the tasks array. It combines the `Start Teams App Locally` task with the `Start Add-in Locally` and specifies that they must run in that order.
```

   ```
    {
        "label": "Start App and Add-in Locally",
        "dependsOn": [
            "Start Teams App Locally",
            "Start Add-in Locally"
        ],
        "dependsOrder": "sequence"
    },
   ```

> 1. Open the .vscode\launch.json file in the project, which configures the **RUN AND DEBUG** UI in Visual Studio Code and add the following two objects to the top of the "configurations" array.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `.vscode\launch.json` file in the project, which configures **RUN AND DEBUG** in Visual Studio Code and add the following two objects to the top of the `configurations` array.
```

Author: > 

I made a variation of this change.

    ```
    {
        "name": "Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)",
        "type": "msedge",
        "request": "attach",
        "port": 9229,
        "timeout": 600000,
        "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
        "preLaunchTask": "Start Add-in Locally",
        "postDebugTask": "Stop Debug"
    },
    {
        "name": "Launch App and Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)",
        "type": "msedge",
        "request": "attach",
        "port": 9229,
        "timeout": 600000,
        "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
        "preLaunchTask": "Start App and Add-in Locally",
        "postDebugTask": "Stop Debug"
    },
    ```

> 1. In the "compounds" section of the same file, rename the "Debug in Teams (Edge)" compound to "Launch App Debug (Edge)", and rename the "Debug in Teams (Chrome)" compound to "Launch App Debug (Chrome)".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the `compounds` section of the same file, rename the `Debug in Teams (Edge)` compound to `Launch App Debug (Edge)` and rename the `Debug in Teams (Chrome)` compound to `Launch App Debug (Chrome)`.
```

1. Verify that you can sideload the add-in capability of the Teams app to Outlook with the following steps:

>       1. *First, make sure Outlook desktop is closed.*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Make sure the Outlook desktop is closed.
```

>       1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       1. Open Visual Studio Code.
       1. Select Teams Toolkit from the **Activity Bar**.
```

      1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.

>       1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** (*not* any of the "Launch *App* ..." options), and then press F5. The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code. 
      1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** and press F5. 
         The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes and opens an Outlook desktop window.
```

>       1. Open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Go to Outlook.
      1. Open the **Inbox** and open any message. 
          A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
```

>       1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
      1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.
```

>       1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. To stop debugging and to uninstall the add-in, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.
```

### Run the app and add-in locally at the same time

You can sideload and run the app and the add-in simultaneously, but the debugger can't reliably attach when both are running. So to debug, run only one at a time. 

> To debug the app, see the last step of the **Prepare the Teams app project** section.

Reviewer 3: Can we please add link to **Prepare the Teams app project** and update the sentence as suggested below?

To debug the app, refer the last step of **Prepare the Teams app project**.

Author: done

Author: > Can we please add link to **Prepare the Teams app project** and update the sentence as suggested below?
> 
> To debug the app, refer the last step of **Prepare the Teams app project**.

done

> To debug the add-in, see the last step of the **Edit the tooling configuration files** section.

Reviewer 3: Can we please add link to **Edit the tooling configuration files** and update the sentence as suggested below?

To debug the app, refer the last step of **Edit the tooling configuration files**.

Author: done

To see both the app and the add-in running at the same time, take the following steps.

> 1. *First, make sure Outlook desktop is closed.*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Make sure Outlook desktop is closed.
```

> 1. In Visual Studio Code, open the Teams Toolkit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open Visual Studio Code.
1. Select Teams Toolkit from the **Activity Bar**.
```

1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.

> 1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** drop down menu, select the option, **Launch App and Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)**, and then press F5. The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens to host the add-in. The tab app is hosted in the Visual Studio Code terminal. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, both of the following things happen:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code. 
1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Launch App and Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** and press F5. 
    The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. The tab app is hosted in the Visual Studio Code terminal. This process can take a couple of minutes and the following actions occur:
```

>     - Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app. *If Teams has not opened by the time Outlook desktop opens, then automatic sideloading has failed.* You can manually sideload it to see both the app and the add-in running at the same time. For sideloading instructions, see [Upload your app in Teams](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-upload). You'll find the manifest.zip file to upload at `C:\Users\{yourname}\AppData\Local\Temp`.

Author: Adding the "is" would be ungrammatical, but I made the other change.

    - Outlook desktop opens.

1. In the Teams prompt, select **Add** and the tab opens.

> 1. In Outlook, open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Go to Outlook.
1. Open the **Inbox** and open any message. 
    A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
```

Author: done, but it's important to keep the caution about which account to use. Devs typically have more than one in Outlook.

> 1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action** button and a small notification appears near the top of the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.
```

> 1. To stop debugging and uninstall the add-in, select **Run** | **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To stop debugging and to uninstall the add-in, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.
```

> 1. If you had to manually sideload the Teams Tab app, remove it from Teams as instructed in [Remove your app](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-upload#remove-your-app). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If you had to manually sideload the Teams tab app, remove it from Teams as instructed in [Remove your app](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-upload#remove-your-app). 
```

### Move the application to Azure

> 1. Open the teamsapp.yml file in the root of the project and find the line `deploymentName: Create-resources-for-tab`. Change it to `deploymentName: Create-resources-for-tab-and-addin`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `teamsapp.yml` file in the root of the project and find the line `deploymentName: Create-resources-for-tab`. Change it to `deploymentName: Create-resources-for-tab-and-addin`.
```

> 1. In the same file, add the following code to the end of the `provision:` section. **Note that indentation is meaningful in YAML, so `- uses` and `- name` statements should be indented 2 spaces, `with` statements should be aligned with `uses`, and the children of `with` should be indented a further 2 spaces.** 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the same file, add the following code to the end of the `provision:` section. 
    > [!NOTE]
    > The indentation is meaningful in YAML, so `- uses` and `- name` statements should be indented two spaces, `with` statements should be aligned with `uses`, and the children of `with` should be indented a further two spaces. 
```

    ```

1. In the same file, replace the entire `deploy:` section with the following code. These changes take account of the new folder structure and the fact that both add-in and tab files need to be deployed.

    ```
    deploy:
      - name: InstallAllCapabilities
        uses: cli/runNpmCommand # Run npm command
        with:
          args: install

      - name: BuildAllCapabilities
        uses: cli/runNpmCommand # Run npm command
        with:
          args: run build --if-present

      - name: DeployTab
        uses: azureAppService/zipDeploy
        with:
          artifactFolder: tab
          ignoreFile: ./tab/.webappignore
          # The ID of the cloud resource where the tab app will be deployed.
          # This key will be generated by arm/deploy action automatically.
          resourceId: ${{TAB_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID}} 

      - name: DeployAddin
        uses: azureStorage/deploy
        with:
          workingDirectory: .
          # Deploy base folder
          artifactFolder: add-in/dist
          # The ID of the cloud resource where the add-in will be deployed.
          resourceId: ${{ADDIN_AZURE_STORAGE_RESOURCE_ID}}
    ```

> 1. Open the infra/azure.parameters.json file in the root of the project and replace its contents with the following JSON.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `infra/azure.parameters.json` file in the root of the project and replace its contents with the following JSON:
```

    ```
    {
        "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentParameters.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters": {
          "resourceBaseName": {
            "value": "tabandaddin${{RESOURCE_SUFFIX}}"
          },
          "webAppSku": {
            "value": "F1"
          },
          "storageSku": {
            "value": "Standard_LRS"
          }
        }
    }
    ```

> 1. Open the infra/azure.bicep file in the root of the project (not the one in either the tab or add-in subfolders) and replace its contents with the following code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `infra/azure.bicep` file in the root of the project (not the one in either the tab or add-in subfolders) and replace its contents with the following code:
```

    module tabModule '../tab/infra/azure.bicep' = {
      name: 'tabModule'
      params: {
        resourceBaseName: resourceBaseName
        webAppSku: webAppSku
        serverfarmsName: serverfarmsName
        webAppName: webAppName
        location: location
      }
    }

    module addinModule '../add-in/infra/azure.bicep' = {
      name: 'addinModule'
      params: {
        resourceBaseName: resourceBaseName
        storageSku: storageSku
        storageName: storageName
        location: location
      }
    }
    
    // The output will be persisted in .env.{envName}. Visit https://aka.ms/teamsfx-actions/arm-deploy for more details.
    output TAB_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID string = tabModule.outputs.TAB_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID // used in deploy stage
    output TAB_DOMAIN string = tabModule.outputs.TAB_DOMAIN
    output TAB_ENDPOINT string = tabModule.outputs.TAB_ENDPOINT
    
    output ADDIN_AZURE_STORAGE_RESOURCE_ID string = addinModule.outputs.ADDIN_AZURE_STORAGE_RESOURCE_ID // used in deploy stage
    output ADDIN_DOMAIN string = addinModule.outputs.ADDIN_DOMAIN
    output ADDIN_ENDPOINT string = addinModule.outputs.ADDIN_ENDPOINT
    ```

> 1. In Visual Studio Code open the Teams Toolkit and in the **ACCOUNTS** section be sure you're signed into your *Azure* account (in addition to being signed into your Microsoft 365 account). For more information about signing in, open [Exercise - Create Azure resources to host a Teams tab app](/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-deploy-apps/03-create-azure-resources-exercise) and scroll to the **Sign in to Azure in Teams Toolkit** section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In Visual Studio Code, open Teams Toolkit.
1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, be sure you're signed into your Azure account (in addition to being signed into your Microsoft 365 account). 
   For more information about signing in, open [Exercise - Create Azure resources to host a Teams tab app](/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-deploy-apps/03-create-azure-resources-exercise) and scroll to the **Sign in to Azure in Teams Toolkit** section.
```

> 1. In the **LIFECYCLE** section of Teams Toolkit, select **Provision**. It can take several minutes. You may be prompted to select one of your Azure resource groups.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **LIFECYCLE** section of Teams Toolkit, select **Provision**. 
    It can take several minutes. You might be prompted to select one of your Azure resource groups.
```

1. When provisioning completes, select **Deploy** to deploy your app code to Azure.

### Run the tab capability from the remote deployment

> 1. Select **View** | **Run** in Visual Studio Code and in the drop down menu, select one of the following choices:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Run**. 
1. In the dropdown menu, select **Launch Remote in Teams (Edge)** or **Launch Remote in Teams (Chrome)**.
```

    - **Launch Remote in Teams (Edge)**
    - **Launch Remote in Teams (Chrome)** 

> 

Reviewer 3: As per comment given in Line 596, can remove Lines 598 and 599.

Author: done

1. Press F5 to preview your Teams tab capability.

### Run the add-in capability from the remote deployment

> 1. Copy the production URL from the ADDIN_ENDPOINT in env/.env.dev file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the production URL from the `ADDIN_ENDPOINT` in `env/.env.dev` file.
```

> 1. Edit \add-in\webpack.config.js file and change `urlProd` constant value to the value you just copied. Be sure to add a '/' at the end of the URL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Edit `\add-in\webpack.config.js` file and change `urlProd` constant value to the value you just copied. Be sure to add a '/' at the end of the URL.
```

> 1. In the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL**, navigate to the root of the project, and then run `npm run build:add-in`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL**, navigate to the root of the project and then run `npm run build:add-in`.
```

Author: This change would violate the guidance in the style guide: https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2700. "and then" should be preceded by a comma.

Reviewer 3: In the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL**, - Is the introductory sentence.
navigate to the root of the project and then run `npm run build:add-in`. - Are steps A and B.

We can't add an Oxford comma in this case, as it's not A, B, and C.

> 1. Copy the file \add-in\dist\manifest.dev.json to the \appPackage folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the file `\add-in\dist\manifest.dev.json` to the `\appPackage` folder.
```

> 1. Rename the copy in the \appPackage folder to "manifest.addinPreview.json".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Rename the copy in the `\appPackage` folder to `manifest.addinPreview.json`.
```

> 1. In the **TERMINAL**, run `npx office-addin-dev-settings sideload .\appPackage\manifest.addinPreview.json`. This process can take a couple of minutes. Eventually, Outlook desktop opens. (If you're prompted to install `office-addin-dev-settings`, respond "yes".)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **TERMINAL**, run `npx office-addin-dev-settings sideload .\appPackage\manifest.addinPreview.json`. This process can take a couple of minutes and opens the Outlook desktop. (If you're prompted to install `office-addin-dev-settings`, respond **yes**.)
```

> 1. Open the **Inbox** of *your Microsoft 365 account identity* and open any message. A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 1. Go to Outlook.
 1. Open the **Inbox** and open any message. 
     A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).
```

Author: done. but same comment as before about the account.

> 1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button and a task pane opens. Select the **Perform an action button** and a small notification appears near the top of the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.
```

## What’s next

> There are other commonly suggested next steps, for example:

Reviewer 3: Add the below options as bulleted list.

Author: I don't understand. The below options already are a bulleted list.

---
title: Add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app

> description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app. This article will walk you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app. This article walks you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.
```

- Read properties of the user's mailbox.
- Respond to events automatically, such as sending an email.
- Integrate with external services including CRM and project management tools.
- Add custom ribbon buttons or menu items to perform specific tasks.

Integrating an Outlook Add-in with a Teams application enables scenarios that neither of them could achieve independently. Consider a scenario where a salesperson can insert a customized discount in an email to a customer and record the offer in a backend database. The sales manager can also view data about all the discounts that have been offered in a Teams tab. For more information, see [Discount Offers sample](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-add-in-combined/nodejs).

[Outlook Add-ins Overview](/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/outlook-add-ins-overview) provides information about the capabilities of Outlook Add-ins, how they are structured, how they improve on older ways of extending Outlook, what platforms the add-in can run on (Windows, Mac, mobile, and the web), and how to get started creating one.

> This article will walk you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This article walks you through the steps to add an Outlook Add-in to a Teams app, test it, then deploy it to Azure.
```

1. Open the `teamsapp.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `ignoreFile: .webappignore`, and change it to `ignoreFile: ./tab/.webappignore`.
1. Open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file in the root of the project, find the line `args: install --no-audit`, and change this to `args: run install:tab --no-audit`.
1. Open **TERMINAL** in Visual Studio Code. Navigate to the root of the project and run `npm install`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the project root. 
1. Next run `npm run install:tab`. A new `node_modules` folder and a new `package.lock.json` file are created in the tab folder, if they aren't there already. 
1. Verify that you can sideload the tab with the following steps:

    1. Open Teams Toolkit. 
    1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed in to Microsoft 365 account.
    1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code.
    1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Debug in Teams (Edge)**, and press F5. 
	
	    The project builds and runs. This process can take a couple of minutes. When it completes, Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app.

> 

Reviewer 3: Please increase the indentation for Note (Line 148 and 149), as the steps in Line 151 and 152 aren't following the numbering series.

<img width="415" alt="image" src="https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/assets/117343020/8514977a-cbd5-4fa0-99d4-187164a75ea8">

Author: done

      > [!NOTE]
      > If this is the first time you've debugged a Teams app on this computer, you're prompted to install an SSL certificate. Select **Install** and then **Yes** to the second prompt. Login to your Microsoft 365 account if you're prompted to do so.

    1. Select **Add**.
    1. To stop debugging and uninstall the app, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code.

### Create an Outlook Add-in project

1. Open a second instance of Visual Studio Code.
1. Select Teams Toolkit from the **Activity Bar**.
1. Select **Create a new app**.

> 1. In the **Select an option** dropdown menu, select **Outlook add-in > Taskpane**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **Select an option** dropdown menu, select **Outlook add-in** > **Taskpane**.
```

1. Select the folder where you want to create the add-in.
1. Give a name (with no spaces) to the project when prompted.

>     Teams Toolkit creates the project with basic files and scaffolding and opens it in a new Visual Studio Code window. You will use this project as a source for files and markup that you add to the Teams project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Teams Toolkit creates the project with basic files and scaffolding and opens it in a new Visual Studio Code window. You'll use this project as a source for files and markup that you add to the Teams project.
```

    
1. Although you won't be developing this project, perform the following steps to verify that it can be sideloaded from Visual Studio Code before you continue:

>     1. Make sure Outlook desktop is closed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Ensure the Outlook desktop is closed.
```

1. Do the same for the "name.short" value. 

    We recommend that you keep the `${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}` on the end of the name. This variable is replaced with the string "local" when you're debugging on localhost and with "dev" when you're either debugging from a remote domain or in production mode. 
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > Historically, Office Add-in developer documentation uses the term "dev" or "dev mode" to refer to running the add-in on a localhost. It uses the term "prod" or "production mode" to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for staging or production. Teams developer documentation uses the term "local" to refer to running the add-in on a localhost, and the term "dev" to refer to running the add-in on a remote host for remote debugging, which is usually called "staging." We're working on getting the terminology consistent.

    The following JSON is an example:

    ```
    "short": "Contoso Tab and Add-in-${{TEAMSFX_ENV}}",
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The "name.short" value appears in both the Teams tab capability and the Outlook add-in. Here are a few examples: 
    >

>     > - It is the label under the launch button of the Teams tab.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    > - It's the label under the launch button of the Teams tab.
```

1. If there's no "authorization.permissions.resourceSpecific" array in the Teams manifest template, copy it from the add-in manifest as a top-level property. If there already is one in the Teams template, copy any objects from the array in the add-in manifest to the array in the Teams template. The following JSON is an example:

    ```json
    "authorization": {
        "permissions": {
            "resourceSpecific": [
                {
                    "name": "MailboxItem.Read.User",
                    "type": "Delegated"
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    ```

1. In the `env/.env.local` file, find the lines that assign values to the `TAB_DOMAIN` and `TAB_ENDPOINT` variables. Add the following lines immediately below them:

    ```
    ADDIN_DOMAIN=localhost:3000
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=https://localhost:3000
    ```

1. In the `env/.env.dev` file, add the following line below the `TAB_ENDPOINT=` ... line:

    ```
    ADDIN_ENDPOINT=
    ```

> 1. In the Teams manifest template, add the placeholder `"${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",` to the top of the "validDomains" array. The Teams Toolkit replaces this with a localhost domain when you're developing locally. When you deploy the finished combined app to staging or production as described in [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure), Teams Toolkit replaces the placeholder with the staging/production URI. The following JSON is an example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Teams manifest template, add the placeholder `"${{ADDIN_DOMAIN}}",` to the top of the `"validDomains"` array. The Teams Toolkit replaces this with a localhost domain when you're developing locally. When you deploy the finished combined app to staging or production as described in [Move the application to Azure](#move-the-application-to-azure), Teams Toolkit replaces the placeholder with the staging/production URI. The following JSON is an example:
```

    ```
    "start": "office-addin-debugging start appPackage/manifest.json",
    "stop": "office-addin-debugging stop appPackage/manifest.json",
    "validate": "office-addin-manifest validate appPackage/manifest.json",
    ```

    In the `start` script, change `appPackage/manifest.json` to `../appPackage/build/appPackage.local.zip`. When you're done, the line must look like this:

    ```
    "start": "office-addin-debugging start ../appPackage/build/appPackage.local.zip",
    ```

    In the `validate` and `stop` scripts, change the parameter to `../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json`. When you're done, the updates must look like this:

    ```
    "stop": "office-addin-debugging stop ../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json",
    "validate": "office-addin-manifest validate ../appPackage/build/manifest.local.json",
    ```

1. In Visual Studio Code, open **TERMINAL**. 
1. Navigate to the **add-in** folder and run the command `npm install`. 
1. In the **add-in** folder, open the `webpack.config.js` file. 
1. Change the line `from: "appPackage/manifest*.json",` to `from: "../appPackage/build/manifest*.json",`.

> 1. In the root of the project, open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file and find the `provision` section. Use the `#` character to comment out the lines that validate the manifest template. This is necessary because the Teams manifest validation system is not yet compatible with the changes you made to the manifest template. When you're done, the lines should look like the following code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the root of the project, open the `teamsapp.local.yml` file and find the `provision` section. Use the `#` character to comment out the lines that validate the manifest template. This is necessary because the Teams manifest validation system isn't yet compatible with the changes you made to the manifest template. When you're done, the lines should look like the following code:
```

    ```
    # - uses: teamsApp/validateManifest
    #   with:
    #     # Path to manifest template
    #     manifestPath: ./appPackage/manifest.json 
    ```

>     Be careful to comment out only the `teamsApp/validateManifest` section. Don't comment out the `teamsManifest/validateAppPackage` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Ensure to comment out only the `teamsApp/validateManifest` section. Don't comment out the `teamsManifest/validateAppPackage` section.
```

Author: "Ensure to commit" is not idiomatic English, so let's do the following:

```suggestion
    Ensure that you comment out only the `teamsApp/validateManifest` section. Don't comment out the `teamsManifest/validateAppPackage` section.
```

1. Repeat the preceding step for the `teamsapp.yml` file. The three lines are found in both the `provision` and the `publish` sections. Comment them out in both places.

> 1. Open the `.vscode\tasks.json` file in the **add-in** project and copy all of the tasks in the `tasks` array. Add them to `tasks` array of the same file in the Teams project. Don't remove any of the tasks that are already there. Be sure all tasks are separated by commas. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the `.vscode\tasks.json` file in the **add-in** project and copy all the tasks in the `tasks` array. Add them to `tasks` array of the same file in the Teams project. Don't remove any of the tasks that are already there. Be sure all tasks are separated by commas. 
```

    },
   ```

1. Open the `.vscode\launch.json` file in the project, which configures the **RUN AND DEBUG** UI in Visual Studio Code and add the following two objects to the top of the "configurations" array.

    ```
    {
        "name": "Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)",
        "type": "msedge",
        "request": "attach",
        "port": 9229,
        "timeout": 600000,
        "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
        "preLaunchTask": "Start Add-in Locally",
        "postDebugTask": "Stop Debug"
    },
    {
        "name": "Launch App and Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)",
        "type": "msedge",
        "request": "attach",
        "port": 9229,
        "timeout": 600000,
        "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
        "preLaunchTask": "Start App and Add-in Locally",
        "postDebugTask": "Stop Debug"
    },
    ```

1. In the `compounds` section of the same file, rename the `Debug in Teams (Edge)` compound to `Launch App Debug (Edge)` and rename the `Debug in Teams (Chrome)` compound to `Launch App Debug (Chrome)`.

1. Verify that you can sideload the add-in capability of the Teams app to Outlook with the following steps:

>       1. Make sure the Outlook desktop is closed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Ensure the Outlook desktop is closed.
```

      1. Open Visual Studio Code.
      1. Select Teams Toolkit from the **Activity Bar**.
      1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.
      1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code. 
      1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Launch Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** and press F5. 
         The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. This process can take a couple of minutes and opens an Outlook desktop window.
      1. Go to Outlook.

>       1. Open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      1. Open the **Inbox** of your Microsoft 365 account identity.
```

      1. Open any message. 
      
          A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

      1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
      1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.
      1. To stop debugging and to uninstall the add-in, select **Run** > **Stop Debugging** in Visual Studio Code. If the Webpack dev-server window doesn't close, open the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL** in the root of the project and run `npm stop`.

### Run the app and add-in locally at the same time

You can sideload and run the app and the add-in simultaneously, but the debugger can't reliably attach when both are running. So to debug, run only one at a time. 

To debug the app, refer to the last step of the [Prepare the Teams app project](#prepare-the-teams-app-project) section.

To debug the add-in, refer to the last step of the [Edit the tooling configuration files](#edit-the-tooling-configuration-files) section.

To see both the app and the add-in running at the same time, take the following steps.

> 1. Make sure Outlook desktop is closed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Ensure the Outlook desktop is closed.
```

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
1. Select Teams Toolkit from the **Activity Bar**.
1. In the **ACCOUNTS** section, verify that you're signed into Microsoft 365.
1. Select **View** > **Run** in Visual Studio Code. 
1. In the **RUN AND DEBUG** dropdown menu, select **Launch App and Add-in Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)** and press F5. 
    The project builds and a Webpack dev-server window opens. The tab app is hosted in the Visual Studio Code terminal. This process can take a couple of minutes and the following actions occur:

    - Teams opens in a browser with a prompt to add your tab app. If Teams hasn't opened by the time Outlook desktop opens, then automatic sideloading has failed. You can manually sideload it to see both the app and the add-in running at the same time. For sideloading instructions, see [Upload your app in Teams](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-upload). You'll find the manifest.zip file to upload at `C:\Users\{yourname}\AppData\Local\Temp`.
    - Outlook desktop opens.

1. In the Teams prompt, select **Add** and the tab opens.
1. Go to Outlook.

> 1. In Outlook, open the **Inbox** *of your Microsoft 365 account identity*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In Outlook, open the **Inbox** of your Microsoft 365 account identity.
```

1. When provisioning completes, select **Deploy** to deploy your app code to Azure.

### Run the tab capability from the remote deployment

1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Run**. 
1. In the dropdown menu, select **Launch Remote in Teams (Edge)** or **Launch Remote in Teams (Chrome)**.
1. Press F5 to preview your Teams tab capability.

### Run the add-in capability from the remote deployment

1. Copy the production URL from the `ADDIN_ENDPOINT` in `env/.env.dev` file.
1. Edit `\add-in\webpack.config.js` file and change `urlProd` constant value to the value you just copied. Be sure to add a '/' at the end of the URL.
1. In the Visual Studio Code **TERMINAL**, navigate to the root of the project and then run `npm run build:add-in`.
1. Copy the file `\add-in\dist\manifest.dev.json` to the `\appPackage` folder.
1. Rename the copy in the `\appPackage` folder to `manifest.addinPreview.json`.
1. In the **TERMINAL**, run `npx office-addin-dev-settings sideload .\appPackage\manifest.addinPreview.json`. This process can take a couple of minutes and opens the Outlook desktop. (If you're prompted to install `office-addin-dev-settings`, respond **yes**.)
1. Go to Outlook.

> 1. Open the **Inbox** of *your Microsoft 365 account identity*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the **Inbox** of your Microsoft 365 account identity.
```

1. Open any message. 

    A **Contoso Add-in** tab with two buttons appears on the **Home** ribbon (or the **Message** ribbon, if you open the message in its own window).

1. Select the **Show Taskpane** button. A task pane opens. 
1. Select the **Perform an action** button. A small notification appears near the top of the message.

## What’s next

There are other commonly suggested next steps, for example:

- Add authentication and make a Graph API call. For the tab capability, see [Add single sign-on to Teams app](/microsoftteams/platform/toolkit/add-single-sign-on). For the add-in capability, see [Enable single sign-on (SSO) in an Office Add-in](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/sso-in-office-add-ins).

> - [Set up CI/CD pipelines](https://github.com/OfficeDev/TeamsFx/wiki/How-to-automate-cicd-pipelines)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Set up CI/CD pipelines](https://github.com/OfficeDev/TeamsFx/wiki/How-to-automate-cicd-pipelines).
```

> - [Call a backend API](https://github.com/OfficeDev/TeamsFx/wiki/How-to-integrate-Azure-Functions-with-your-Teams-app)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Call a backend API](https://github.com/OfficeDev/TeamsFx/wiki/How-to-integrate-Azure-Functions-with-your-Teams-app).
```
